# CMake C/C++ Project Template (Linux/GCC)

This is how I like to set up my CMake projects.

Feel free to use this template. Just replace all instances of `myproject` and `MYPROJECT` in the files with the name of your project and you're good to go.

## Project structure

```
myproject
├── .build
├── cmake
├── doc
├── extern
├── include
│   └── myproject
├── src
│   └── app
│       └── main.cc
└── test
```

The meaning of each directory may be rather self-explanatory, but since this is geared towards less experienced developers, I'm going to explain them briefly in any case.

#### `.build`

The build directory. This is where all files generated by the build system – including your program executable – will be placed.

#### `cmake`

CMake scripts ought to be put here.

#### `doc`

If there's documentation, put it here.

#### `extern`

Place third-party (external) libraries here.

#### `include`

If your project is large, it can be a good idea to separate headers from source files. If you choose to do so, you should place your headers in this directory.

If you're writing a library, you should *always* do this. More specifically, you should place your header files in `include/myproject`. This is an established convention that makes it easier for others to use your library.

#### `src`

Place your C/C++ source files here.

#### `test`

Put all testing-related code here.

## Building

1. Configure the project by running CMake:

```
cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
```

2. Build the project (in parallel for faster building):

```
cmake --build build --parallel `nproc`
```

3. Run the executable:

```
./build/Debug/bin/myproject
```

## Extra Features

* This template automatically enables static analysis of C and C++ code with Cppcheck
  * The configuration may not suit you perfectly, so keep that in mind
* This template enables testing with CMake's integrated CTest tool

## Limitations

I'm not as familiar with Clang and MSVC as I am with GCC, so this project only fully supports GCC.

However, it should be easy enough to customize the compiler-specific bits for your preferred compiler.
